Update to add info about syncing from a snapshot (#370)
filecoin-project/filecoin-docs: docs/build/start-building/deploy-your-application-to-the-filecoin-testnet.md

# Deploy your application to the Filecoin testnet

> If you have built your application and tested it on smaller-scale Filecoin networks (e.g. a [local network](https://docs.filecoin.io/build/start-building/interacting-with-the-network/#running-a-local-network) or the [Filecoin Nerpa network](https://docs.filecoin.io/build/start-building/interacting-with-the-network/#devnets)), you are now ready to deploy your application to the Filecoin testnet. We currently recommend _all developers_ deploy their applications to the Filecoin testnet in order to receive direct support from the Protocol Labs team and to be eligible for upcoming data storage rewards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have built your application and tested it on smaller-scale Filecoin networks, like a [local network](https://docs.filecoin.io/build/start-building/interacting-with-the-network/#running-a-local-network) or the [Nerpa devnet](https://docs.filecoin.io/build/start-building/interacting-with-the-network/#devnets), then you are now ready to deploy your application to the Filecoin testnet! We currently recommend **all developers deploy their applications to the Filecoin testnet** in order to receive direct support from the Protocol Labs team and to be eligible for upcoming data storage rewards.
```

I have a personal vendetta against parentheses, mainly because they make translation a bit of a pain.

Author: Got it -- this makes the first sentence super long, so I'll fix another way (without introducing parens)

The Filecoin testnet is a network with parameters and activity levels as close as possible to the expected early state of the Filecoin main network (mainnet). The testnet is currently being used for the Filecoin testnet incentives, or [Space Race](https://docs.filecoin.io/mine/spacerace/), competition. As a developer on the Filecoin testnet, there are some important things you should know about development on the testnet.

::: tip

> **Recommended for most developers:** We recommend that most developers use a [hosted service like hosted Powergates or Textile Buckets](https://blog.textile.io/prepare-to-launch-expanding-free-access-to-filecoin-through-hosted-powergates/) to store your application data to the Filecoin testnet. These services are by far the fastest and friendliest way to get your application working with Filecoin. If you are using either a hosted Powergate or Textile Buckets, you don’t need to worry about any of the information in this guide. Textile’s services are soon to be deployed against the Filecoin testnet, so if you are using hosted Textile products, your application will also be deployed on the Filecoin testnet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend that **most developers use a hosted service** like hosted [Powergates or Textile Buckets](https://blog.textile.io/prepare-to-launch-expanding-free-access-to-filecoin-through-hosted-powergates/) to store your application data to the Filecoin testnet. These services are by far the fastest way to get your application working with Filecoin. If you are using a hosted Powergate, or Textile Buckets, you don’t need to worry about any of the information in this guide. Textile’s services are soon to be deployed against the Filecoin testnet, so if you are using hosted Textile products, your application will also be deployed on the Filecoin testnet.
```

Our teammates have also had success running `m5ad.2xlarge` instances on AWS. In order to significantly boost the initial chain sync speed, make sure to keep `~/.lotus` on a fast drive (ideally a SSD -- nvme is best!) and consider temporarily applying the patch listed in [this issue comment](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/issues/3263#issue-684587473).

### (2) Download the latest Filecoin chain state export

> Syncing the Filecoin chain from scratch can be a time-consuming process. Currently, chainsync takes about 1/4th of the lifetime of the network to complete. That is, a network 100 days old will take about 25 days to sync from scratch. Instead of syncing from scratch, we recommend that developers looking to deploy their applications quickly download a chain state export generated by the Protocol Labs team and initiate their lotus nodes with this state export. We are working on a more robust solution for mainnet. For now, this is the easiest way to avoid a multi-day setup process to get onto the Filecoin testnet.

Author: Yeah I think it's important to spell it out here so people know what to expect if they sync from scratch.

Download the latest state snapshot here:

| Snapshot Date | Download Link                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Size (GiB) | sha256sum                                                        |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | 2020-09-05    | [https://very-temporary-spacerace-chain-snapshot.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/Spacerace_2020-09-05_10-54-00-UTC.car](https://very-temporary-spacerace-chain-snapshot.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/Spacerace_2020-09-05_10-54-00-UTC.car) | 12.6       | 8815c8b20c854323501fef52885cd2edf139c0a93e26918e2fd9a5478f5bdf24 |

Reviewer: This URL is funny.

### (3) Run the lotus daemon with the state snapshot

> Make sure you have a clean lotus install.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure you have a clean lotus install, and that **you have backed up all your wallet keys!!!**
```

```
rm -rf ~/.lotus
```

Then run the lotus daemon passing in the file name for the state snapshot you just downloaded.

```

> lotus daemon --import-snapshot Spacerace_2020-09-05_10-54-00-UTC.car

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
lotus daemon --import-snapshot Spacerace_stateroots_snapshot_latest.car
```

```

### (4) Wait for the Filecoin chain to sync

> Because you are running the lotus daemon with a chain state snapshot, the chain sync process should be much faster than if you were syncing the chain from scratch. However, you will still need to sync the chain from the point at which the snapshot was generated to the current chain head. [You can run `lotus sync wait` to see the current sync status](https://docs.filecoin.io/how-to/join-a-network/#chain-sync).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because you are running the lotus daemon from a known chain-state snapshot, the chain sync process will be significantly faster than if you were syncing the chain from scratch. However, you will still need to sync the chain from the point at which the snapshot was generated to the current chain head. [You can run `lotus sync wait` to see the current sync status](https://docs.filecoin.io/how-to/join-a-network/#chain-sync).
```

### (5) Create your first wallet address

You need to create a wallet address in order to create storage deals on the Filecoin network. You can [follow the steps here to generate your first wallet address](https://docs.filecoin.io/how-to/join-a-network/#create-your-first-address). Remember that wallet address for future steps.

### (6) Request funds from the testnet faucet

You need some FIL tokens in your testnet wallet in order to make storage deals on the network. You can request some test tokens in your testnet wallet by going to the testnet faucet, connecting your GitHub account, and then making the funds request.

Request funds here: [Faucet](https://spacerace.faucet.glif.io/)

### (7) Check your wallet balance

> Check your testnet wallet balance to make sure it contains >0 FIL.](https://docs.filecoin.io/how-to/join-a-network/#check-wallet-address-balance) You will not see any funds in your testnet wallet until your node is fully synced (which may take several days, depending on how you started chain sync -- if you are syncing from a snapshot, it should take <1 day for the balance to show up). Once you have a >0 FIL balance in your testnet wallet, you can proceed to the next step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check your testnet wallet balance to make sure it contains more than 0 FIL.](https://docs.filecoin.io/how-to/join-a-network/#check-wallet-address-balance) You will not see any funds in your testnet wallet until your node is fully synced, which may take several days depending on how you started chain sync. If you are syncing from a snapshot, it should take less than 1 day for the balance to show up. Once you have more than 0 FIL in your testnet wallet, you can proceed to the next step.
```
